Update Deployment Gates documentation for V2 launch (#30731)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/deployment_gates/setup.md

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Monitors" %}}

> This rule type evaluates the state of your monitors for a configurable period of time. It periodically evaluates monitors that match your query and will fail if, at any time during the duration period:

Reviewer: Maybe we can add periodically before the evaluates in the first sentence in case?

> This rule type evaluates the state of your monitors for a configurable period of time. It periodically evaluates monitors that match your query and will fail if, at any time during the duration period:

Reviewer 2: What is the purpose of adding this word? (Genuine question, I am trying to understand what is missing in the proposal)

> This rule type evaluates the state of your monitors for a configurable period of time. It periodically evaluates monitors that match your query and will fail if, at any time during the duration period:

Author: I was afraid that doesn't make it clear enough, but I agree it's implicit in there so I removed the word 'periodically'

#### Configuration settings

* **Operation Name**: Auto-populated from the service's [APM primary operation][3] settings.
* **Duration**: Time (in seconds) that the rule should wait before performing the evaluation. For optimal analysis confidence, this value should be at least 900 seconds (15 minutes) after a deployment starts.
* **Excluded Resources**: Enter a comma-separated list of [APM resources][2] to ignore (such as low-volume or low-priority endpoints).

#### Notes

> - For optimal analysis confidence, wait at least 15 minutes after a deployment starts before evaluating the gate.

Author: Recommendation moved to the duration option

## Evaluate a Deployment Gate

> Deployment Gate evaluations are asynchronous, as the evaluation process can take some time to complete. This means that when you trigger an evaluation, the a process is started in the background and provides you with an evaluation ID to track its progress.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deployment Gate evaluations are asynchronous, as the evaluation process can take some time to complete. This means that, when you trigger an evaluation, it's started in the background and the API provides you with an evaluation ID to track its progress.
```

> - First, request a deployment gate evaluation, which initiates the process and returns an evaluation ID.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- First, request a Deployment Gate evaluation, which initiates the process and returns an evaluation ID.
```

> - Then, poll the evaluation status endpoint using the evaluation ID to retrieve the result once the evaluation is complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Then, periodically poll the evaluation status endpoint using the evaluation ID to retrieve the result once the evaluation is complete.
```

Reviewer: In general, I feel that we could expand a bit more over the approach that we require from customers. It needs to be clear that the second endpoint needs to be called periodically, as the duration of the gate might vary

Author: Makes sense! At the moment we check monitors every 15 seconds (this could change in the future), so polling the endpoint every 10-15 seconds or so would be optimal to reduce delays in getting an evaluation result. I'll update the doc!

> After a gate is configured with at least one rule, you can request a gate evaluation while deploying the related service with an API call:

Reviewer: I would add this at the beginning.

> After a gate is configured with at least one rule, you can request a gate evaluation while deploying the related service. Deployment Gate evaluations are asynchronous, ...

> A Deployment Gate evaluation can be requested with an API call:

Author: As discussed in Slack, we decided to move this section to a new tab instead of inside of the 'Generic script' because somebody can decide to implement their own script using the API calls we describe here

**Note**: A 404 HTTP response can be because the gate was not found, or because the gate was found but has no rules.

If the gate evaluation was successfully started, a 202 HTTP status code is returned. The response is in the following format:

```json
{
   "data": {
       "id": "<random_response_uuid>",
        "type": "deployment_gates_evaluation_response",
        "attributes": {
            "evaluation_id": "e9d2f04f-4f4b-494b-86e5-52f03e10c8e9"
        }
    }
}
```

The field `data.attributes.evaluation_id` contains the unique identifier for this gate evaluation.

An additional API endpoint allows to fetch the gate evaluation status. You can poll this endpoint using the Gate Evaluation ID to fetch the Gate Evaluation status:

```bash

> curl -X GET "https://api.{{< region-param key="dd_site" >}}/api/unstable/deployments/gates/evaluation/e9d2f04f-4f4b-494b-86e5-52f03e10c8e9" \

Reviewer: We should probably write it like:

```suggestion
curl -X GET "https://api.{{< region-param key="dd_site" >}}/api/unstable/deployments/gates/evaluation/<evaluation_id>" \
```

and mention to replace <evaluation_id> with the ID returned from the previous endpoint (in our example, `e9d2f04f-4f4b-494b-86e5-52f03e10c8e9`)

}
```

The field `data.attributes.gate_status` contains the result of the evaluation. It can contain one of these values:

* `in_progress`: The Deployment Gate evaluation is still in progress, you should continue polling.
* `pass`: The Deployment Gate evaluation passed.
* `fail`: The Deployment Gate evaluation failed.

**Note**: If the field `data.attributes.dry_run` is `true`, the field `data.attributes.gate_status` is always `pass`.

### Integration examples

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "datadog-ci CLI" %}}

> The [datadog-ci][1] `deployment gate` command encapsulates all the required logic to evaluate Deployment Gates in a single command:

Reviewer 3: Might be easier to read, and translate:
```suggestion
The [datadog-ci][1] `deployment gate` command includes all the required logic to evaluate Deployment Gates in a single command:
```

```bash

> datadog-ci deployment gate --service transaction-backend --env staging

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
datadog-ci deployment gate --service transaction-backend --env staging --version 1.0 # version is only required for APM Faulty Deployment Detection rules
```

Reviewer 2: LGTM!

```

The command has the following characteristics:
* It sends a request to start the evaluation and polls the evaluation status endpoint using the evaluation_id until the evaluation is complete.
* It provides a configurable timeout to determine the maximum amount of time to wait for an evaluation to complete.
* It implements automatic retries for errors.

> * It allows to customize the behavior on unexpected errors, allowing to consider Datadog failures as either an evaluation pass or a fail.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* It allows you to customize the behavior on unexpected errors, allowing you to consider Datadog failures as either an evaluation pass or a fail.
```

Note that the `deployment gate` command is available in datadog-ci versions v3.17.0 and above.

**Required environment variables**:
* `DD_API_KEY`: API key used to authenticate the requests.
* `DD_APP_KEY`: Application key used to authenticate the requests.

> * `DD_BETA_COMMANDS_ENABLED=1`: The `deployment gate` command is a beta command, so datadog-ci needs to be ran with beta commands enabled.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `DD_BETA_COMMANDS_ENABLED=1`: The `deployment gate` command is a beta command, so datadog-ci needs to be run with beta commands enabled.
```

For complete configuration options and detailed usage examples, refer to the [`deployment gate` command documentation][2].

[1]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-ci
[2]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-ci/tree/master/src/commands/deployment#gate

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Argo Rollouts" %}}
To call Deployment Gates from an Argo Rollouts Kubernetes Resource, you can create an [AnalysisTemplate][1] or a [ClusterAnalysisTemplate][1]. The template should contain a Kubernetes job that is used to perform the analysis.

Use this script as a starting point. For the DD_SITE environment variable, be sure to replace `<YOUR_DD_SITE>` with your [Datadog site name][2] (for example, {{< region-param key="dd_site" code="true" >}}).

> The script needs an API and an Application key to be executed. The safest way to provide them is by using [Kubernetes Secrets][3]. This example relies on a secret called `datadog` holding two data: `api-key` and `app-key`. Alternatively, you can also pass the value in plain text using `value` instead of `valueFrom` in the script below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The script requires an API key and application key. The safest way to provide them is by using [Kubernetes Secrets][3]. This example relies on a secret called `datadog` holding two data values: `api-key` and `app-key`. Alternatively, you can also pass the values in plain text using `value` instead of `valueFrom` in the script below.
```

* It implements automatic retries for errors.
* It allows you to customize the behavior on unexpected errors, allowing you to consider Datadog failures as either an evaluation pass or a fail.

Note that the `deployment gate` command is available in datadog-ci versions v3.17.0 and above.

**Required environment variables**:
* `DD_API_KEY`: API key used to authenticate the requests.
* `DD_APP_KEY`: Application key used to authenticate the requests.
* `DD_BETA_COMMANDS_ENABLED=1`: The `deployment gate` command is a beta command, so datadog-ci needs to be run with beta commands enabled.

For complete configuration options and detailed usage examples, refer to the [`deployment gate` command documentation][2].

[1]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-ci
[2]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-ci/tree/master/src/commands/deployment#gate

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Argo Rollouts" %}}
To call Deployment Gates from an Argo Rollouts Kubernetes Resource, you can create an [AnalysisTemplate][1] or a [ClusterAnalysisTemplate][1]. The template should contain a Kubernetes job that is used to perform the analysis.

> Use this script as a starting point. For the DD_SITE environment variable, be sure to replace `<YOUR_DD_SITE>` with your [Datadog site name][2] (for example, {{< region-param key="dd_site" code="true" >}}).

Author: Oops, updated!

      sleep $POLL_INTERVAL_SECONDS
      continue
  elif [ ${HTTP_CODE} -ge 400 ] && [ ${HTTP_CODE} -le 499 ]; then
      # 4xx errors (except 404) are client errors and not retriable
      echo "Client error ($HTTP_CODE) while polling: $RESPONSE_BODY"
      exit 1
  fi

  # Check gate status
  GATE_STATUS=$(echo "$RESPONSE_BODY" | jq -r '.data.attributes.gate_status')

  if [ "$GATE_STATUS" = "pass" ]; then
      echo "Gate evaluation PASSED"
      exit 0
  elif [ "$GATE_STATUS" = "fail" ]; then
      echo "Gate evaluation FAILED"
      exit 1
  else
      # Treat any other status (in_progress, unexpected, etc.) as still in progress
      echo "Evaluation still in progress (status: $GATE_STATUS), retrying in $POLL_INTERVAL_SECONDS seconds... (attempt $poll_count, elapsed: ${elapsed_time}s)"
      sleep $POLL_INTERVAL_SECONDS
      continue
  fi
done
```

The script has the following characteristics:

* It receives three inputs: `service`, `environment`, and `version` (optionally add `identifier` and `primary_tag` if needed). The `version` is only required if one or more APM Faulty Deployment Detection rules are evaluated.

> * It sends a request to start the evaluation and records the evaluation_id. Handles various HTTP response codes appropriately:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* It sends a request to start the evaluation and records the evaluation_id. It handles various HTTP response codes appropriately:
```
